README.md, before:

# Google Calendar Synchronisation

Pyhton script that synchronises calendars between two Google Accounts. 

Python 3 is required. 

## Security warnings

- This application copies data from one Google account calendar to a different one. Please, make sure your that you are not sharing sensible data and confirm it with your organisation. 
- Make sure you don't expose any credential information (.json and .pickle files are ignored on `.gitignore` file to prevent this.

## How to install

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

## Run the application

To run the application, you have to generate as many `credential.json` files as Google Account you want to manage. To create those files, read the [credentials section](#credentials).

The first time the application is run, a pop-up appears to verify your credentials. If a message indicates that Google has not
verified the application, click on `Continue`.

![App verification](.README_images/app_verification.png)

Allow the permissions to edit calendars.

![](.README_images/permissions.png)

If you get a message like this, follow the instructions on it to enable calendar API.

![](.README_images/message.png)

### `gcallist` command

Let's suppose that we have already downloaded the credentials file to the root folder of this repository with a name `myaccount.credentials.json`. To list all the calendar ids and names from this account, run:

```shell script
python3 gcallist.py mmyacount
```

This will print something like:

```
ID: addressbook#contacts@group.v.calendar.google.com  NAME: Birthdays
ID: en.spain#holiday@group.v.calendar.google.com  NAME: Holidays in Spain
ID: XXX@gmail.com  NAME: XXX@thoughtworks.com
```

This is useful to know the ID of the source and target calendars in `gcalsync` commmand

### `gcalsync` command

This command copies event from a source calendar to a target one. Let's suppose we created two credentials files in the root folder:

```
account1.credentials.json
account2.credentials.json
```

The following command will copy all the events from one calendar (source) to another one (target)

```shell script
python3 gcalsync.py account1 "calendar-id-21" account2 "calendar-id-33" 1d
```

- `account1` is the source account. The name should match with any XXX.credentials.json file. 
- `calendar-id-21` is the id from the source calendar. To know this id, see [gcallist section](#gcallist-command).
- `account1` is the target account. The name should match with any XXX.credentials.json file. 
- `calendar-id-21` is the id from the target calendar. To know this id, see [gcallist section](#gcallist-command).
- `1d` means that it will copy events from current time to the end of this day. Other possible values
    - `2d`: will copy events from current timme to the end of tomorrow. 3d, 4d and so on are also possible. 
    - `1w`: will copy events from current time to the end of this week. 
    - `2w`: will copy events from current time to the end of next week. 3w, 4w and so on are also possible. 

`NOTE:` If you use "primary" as calendar id, you will use the account main calendar. Eg. this command would copy events from the main calendar in `account1` to the main calendar in `account2` 

```shell script
 python3 gcalsync.py myaccount primary myaccount primary 1d 
```

`NOTE:` You can also copy events from calendars inside the same account. Eg. this command would copy events from calendar with id c-1 to calendar with id c-2, both in the account `myaccount`

```shell script
 python3 gcalsync.py myaccount "c-1" myaccount "c-2" 2d 
````

`NOTE:` The command can safely be executed several times. All the already synchronised events will be removed from the target calendar and recreated. 

`NOTE:` By default, the name, description and location of the events are not copied to prevent exposing sensible data, but copying of sensible data can be enabled by adding the parameter `--copySensibleData` at the end. Eg.

```shell script
python3 gcalsync.py account1 "calendar-id-21" account2 "calendar-id-33" 1d --copySensibleData
```

`NOTE:` Use the `--colorId` argument to pick a color number (try values 1, 2, 3.. and so on) in order to visually distinguish the synced events:
```shell script
python3 gcalsync.py account1 "calendar-id-21" account2 "calendar-id-33" 1d --colorId 5
```
See the
[colors](https://developers.google.com/calendar/api/v3/reference/colors/get) resource for more details and possible values.

### What if my organisation does not allow Google API?

In that case, it is still possible to use `gcalsync`. Imagine that source account `account1` does not allow Google API. In that case, we won't be able to create the credentials file to copy events from `account1`.

But we can make a calendar from `account1` visible in `account2` by following these steps:

- Go to [calendars](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r/month). 
- Open `Settings and sharing` for the calendar you want to share.

![Settings and sharing](.README_images/settings_sharings.png)

- Add a new entry in `Share with specific people` including the email of the target account (`account2` in the example). You can select the level of visibility for those events (take into account your organisation security guidelines).

![Share with specific people](.README_images/share_people.png)

From this moment, you will have a copy from your calendar in your target account, so you will be able to copy events from it to your main calendar (or other account calendar) just using the credentials for `account2`. 

```shell script
python3 gcalsync.py account2 "calendar-copies-from-account-1" account2 "target-calendar" 1d 
```

## Credentials

1) Go to https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials.
2) Set up a new project.

![Set up a new project](.README_images/new_project.png)

3) Choose any name (`gcal3` in the example) and don't select any organisation.

![Project name](.README_images/document_name.png)

4) Select OAuth consent screen, select `External` as User Type and click on create. 

![Consent screen](.README_images/consent_screen.png)

5) Set as app name to any name, eg. `gcalsync`. Only this name, user support email and developer contact information are mandatory.

![](.README_images/app_name.png)

6) Click on `Save and Continue`.

7) Then, in scopes, select `Add or remove scopes` and in `Manually add scopes` put this:

```
https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar
https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.events
```

8) Click on `Add to table` and then in `Update`.

9) Click on `Save and Continue`

10) In test users, add your own user (Google email).

11) Click on `Save and Continue`.

12) Go to Credentials, `Create Credentials`, select `OAuth client ID`.

![Credentials](.README_images/credentials.png)

13) Set application type to `Desktop app` and choose any application name. 

![](.README_images/credentials2.png)

14) Once created, click on the created credential.
 
 ![](.README_images/credential.png)
 
15) Click on the credential and download json file to the gcalsync directory, with a name format like this:

```
name.credentials.json
```

where `name` can be chosen by you to identify your account. 

![Download credentials](.README_images/download_json.png)

16) Repeat all the previous steps if you want to manage other accounts. 


# Possible improvements 

- Allow bi-directional synchronisation. Not very far away. 
- Publish a command to avoid having to clone the repo. See [this link](https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-build-and-publish-command-line-applications-with-python-96065049abc1).

Commit message:

Add instructions to install a crontab

README.md, after:

# Google Calendar Synchronisation

Pyhton script that synchronises calendars between two Google Accounts. 

Python 3 is required. 

## Security warnings

- This application copies data from one Google account calendar to a different one. Please, make sure your that you are not sharing sensible data and confirm it with your organisation. 
- Make sure you don't expose any credential information (.json and .pickle files are ignored on `.gitignore` file to prevent this.

## How to install

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

## Run the application

To run the application, you have to generate as many `credential.json` files as Google Account you want to manage. To create those files, read the [credentials section](#credentials).

The first time the application is run, a pop-up appears to verify your credentials. If a message indicates that Google has not
verified the application, click on `Continue`.

![App verification](.README_images/app_verification.png)

Allow the permissions to edit calendars.

![](.README_images/permissions.png)

If you get a message like this, follow the instructions on it to enable calendar API.

![](.README_images/message.png)

### `gcallist` command

Let's suppose that we have already downloaded the credentials file to the root folder of this repository with a name `myaccount.credentials.json`. To list all the calendar ids and names from this account, run:

```shell script
python3 gcallist.py mmyacount
```

This will print something like:

```
ID: addressbook#contacts@group.v.calendar.google.com  NAME: Birthdays
ID: en.spain#holiday@group.v.calendar.google.com  NAME: Holidays in Spain
ID: XXX@gmail.com  NAME: XXX@thoughtworks.com
```

This is useful to know the ID of the source and target calendars in `gcalsync` commmand

### `gcalsync` command

This command copies event from a source calendar to a target one. Let's suppose we created two credentials files in the root folder:

```
account1.credentials.json
account2.credentials.json
```

The following command will copy all the events from one calendar (source) to another one (target)

```shell script
python3 gcalsync.py account1 "calendar-id-21" account2 "calendar-id-33" 1d
```

- `account1` is the source account. The name should match with any XXX.credentials.json file. 
- `calendar-id-21` is the id from the source calendar. To know this id, see [gcallist section](#gcallist-command).
- `account1` is the target account. The name should match with any XXX.credentials.json file. 
- `calendar-id-21` is the id from the target calendar. To know this id, see [gcallist section](#gcallist-command).
- `1d` means that it will copy events from current time to the end of this day. Other possible values
    - `2d`: will copy events from current timme to the end of tomorrow. 3d, 4d and so on are also possible. 
    - `1w`: will copy events from current time to the end of this week. 
    - `2w`: will copy events from current time to the end of next week. 3w, 4w and so on are also possible. 

`NOTE:` If you use "primary" as calendar id, you will use the account main calendar. Eg. this command would copy events from the main calendar in `account1` to the main calendar in `account2` 

```shell script
 python3 gcalsync.py myaccount primary myaccount primary 1d 
```

`NOTE:` You can also copy events from calendars inside the same account. Eg. this command would copy events from calendar with id c-1 to calendar with id c-2, both in the account `myaccount`

```shell script
 python3 gcalsync.py myaccount "c-1" myaccount "c-2" 2d 
````

`NOTE:` The command can safely be executed several times. All the already synchronised events will be removed from the target calendar and recreated. 

`NOTE:` By default, the name, description and location of the events are not copied to prevent exposing sensible data, but copying of sensible data can be enabled by adding the parameter `--copySensibleData` at the end. Eg.

```shell script
python3 gcalsync.py account1 "calendar-id-21" account2 "calendar-id-33" 1d --copySensibleData
```

`NOTE:` Use the `--colorId` argument to pick a color number (try values 1, 2, 3.. and so on) in order to visually distinguish the synced events:
```shell script
python3 gcalsync.py account1 "calendar-id-21" account2 "calendar-id-33" 1d --colorId 5
```
See the
[colors](https://developers.google.com/calendar/api/v3/reference/colors/get) resource for more details and possible values.

### What if my organisation does not allow Google API?

In that case, it is still possible to use `gcalsync`. Imagine that source account `account1` does not allow Google API. In that case, we won't be able to create the credentials file to copy events from `account1`.

But we can make a calendar from `account1` visible in `account2` by following these steps:

- Go to [calendars](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r/month). 
- Open `Settings and sharing` for the calendar you want to share.

![Settings and sharing](.README_images/settings_sharings.png)

- Add a new entry in `Share with specific people` including the email of the target account (`account2` in the example). You can select the level of visibility for those events (take into account your organisation security guidelines).

![Share with specific people](.README_images/share_people.png)

From this moment, you will have a copy from your calendar in your target account, so you will be able to copy events from it to your main calendar (or other account calendar) just using the credentials for `account2`. 

```shell script
python3 gcalsync.py account2 "calendar-copies-from-account-1" account2 "target-calendar" 1d 
```

## Credentials

1) Go to https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials.
2) Set up a new project.

![Set up a new project](.README_images/new_project.png)

3) Choose any name (`gcal3` in the example) and don't select any organisation.

![Project name](.README_images/document_name.png)

4) Select OAuth consent screen, select `External` as User Type and click on create. 

![Consent screen](.README_images/consent_screen.png)

5) Set as app name to any name, eg. `gcalsync`. Only this name, user support email and developer contact information are mandatory.

![](.README_images/app_name.png)

6) Click on `Save and Continue`.

7) Then, in scopes, select `Add or remove scopes` and in `Manually add scopes` put this:

```
https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar
https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.events
```

8) Click on `Add to table` and then in `Update`.

9) Click on `Save and Continue`

10) In test users, add your own user (Google email).

11) Click on `Save and Continue`.

12) Go to Credentials, `Create Credentials`, select `OAuth client ID`.

![Credentials](.README_images/credentials.png)

13) Set application type to `Desktop app` and choose any application name. 

![](.README_images/credentials2.png)

14) Once created, click on the created credential.
 
 ![](.README_images/credential.png)
 
15) Click on the credential and download json file to the gcalsync directory, with a name format like this:

```
name.credentials.json
```

where `name` can be chosen by you to identify your account. 

![Download credentials](.README_images/download_json.png)

16) Repeat all the previous steps if you want to manage other accounts. 

## Running automated in a crontab

You can use a crontab to automatically execute calendar sync in the background.

In a console, enter:
```
crontab -e
```

This will open an editor (vi). To append a line, type `Go` and paste:
```
1 * * * * * /opt/homebrew/bin/python3 /Users/kfleerko/code/gh/klausfl/gcalsync/gcalsync.py tw "klaus.fleerkoetter.external@zalando.de" tw primary 14d --colorId 5
```

Press escape and type `:x!` to exit.


# Possible improvements 

- Allow bi-directional synchronisation. Not very far away. 
- Publish a command to avoid having to clone the repo. See [this link](https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-build-and-publish-command-line-applications-with-python-96065049abc1).
